Add Documentation for Kubectl debug node command (#35300)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/debug/debug-cluster/kubectl-node-debug.md

---
title: Debugging Kubernetes nodes with kubectl
content_type: task
---

<!-- overview -->

> This page shows how to debug a [nodes](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/) running on the Kubernetes cluster using `kubectl debug` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows how to debug a [node](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/) running on the Kubernetes cluster using `kubectl debug` command.
```

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

<!-- steps -->

## Debugging via a shell on the node {#node-shell-session}

To create an interactive shell on a node using `kubectl debug`, run:

```shell
kubectl debug node/mynode -it --image=ubuntu
```

> ```

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be shell too since it is a result?
```suggestion
```shell
```

Creating debugging pod node-debugger-mynode-pdx84 with container debugger on node mynode.
If you don't see a command prompt, try pressing enter.
root@ek8s:/#
```

When creating a debugging session on a node, keep in mind that:

> * `kubectl debug` automatically generates the name of the new Pod based on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `kubectl debug` automatically generates the name of the new pod based on
```

>   the name of the Node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the name of the node.
```

---
title: Debugging Kubernetes nodes with kubectl
content_type: task

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.20
---
```

<!-- overview -->
This page shows how to debug a [node](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/) running on the Kubernetes cluster using `kubectl debug` command.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

You need to have access to create Pods and to assign those new Pods to arbitrary nodes.
You also need to be authorized to create Pods that access filesystems from the host.
```

<!-- steps -->

> ## Debugging Node using kubectl debug node

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
## Debugging a Node using `kubectl debug node`
```

Use the `kubectl debug node` command to deploy a Pod to a Node that you want to troubleshoot.
This command is helpful in scenarios where you can't access your Node by using an SSH connection.
When the Pod is created, the Pod opens a interactive shell on the Node.

> To create an interactive shell on a Node using `kubectl debug`, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an interactive shell on a Node named “mynode”, using `kubectl debug`, run:
```

```shell
kubectl debug node/mynode -it --image=ubuntu
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: This isn't shell - try `console`.

Creating debugging pod node-debugger-mynode-pdx84 with container debugger on node mynode.
If you don't see a command prompt, try pressing enter.
root@ek8s:/#
```

Run debug commands to help you gather information and troubleshoot issues. Commands 
that you might use to debug, such as `ip`, `ifconfig`, `nc`, `ping`, and `ps`. You can also
install other tools, such as `mtr`, `tcpdump`, and `curl`, from the respective package manager.

> Get the following logs from the shell session to look for issues on the Node. Note that the root filesystem
> of the Node will be mounted at `/host`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The root filesystem of the Node (as seen by the kubelet) is available into the debugging Pod, and is
mounted as `/host`. For a typical Linux node, you can look at the following paths to find relevant logs:
```

Reviewer 3: How about

```suggestion
The debugging Pod can access the root filesystem of the Node, mounted at `/host`.
```

not sure if we need to mention "as seen by the kubelet" - if we do need to maybe we should make it clearer what is being seen by the kubelet

Reviewer 2: If you run your kubelet inside a filesystem namespace, the debug pod sees the root _for that namespace_ not the node's root filesystem. That's what I want to emphasize.

Reviewer 2: > Hmm so something like "The debugging Pod can access the root filesystem of the Node, mounted at `/host`." If you run your kubelet in a filesystem namespace, the debugging Pod sees the root for that namespace, not for the entire node. For a typical&hellip;"

That'd work!

* `/host/var/log/kubelet.log` - logs from the `kubelet`, responsible for running containers on the node
* `/host/var/log/kube-proxy.log` - logs from `kube-proxy`, which is responsible for directing traffic to Service endpoints
* `/host/var/log/containerd.log` - logs from `containerd` process running on node
* `/host/var/log/syslog` - shows general messages and info regarding the system

> * `/host/var/log/kern.log` - shows kernel logs

Reviewer 2: Consider using a [definition list](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#definition-lists) here.

When creating a debugging session on a Node, keep in mind that:

> * `kubectl debug` automatically generates the name of the new pod based on
>   the name of the node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `kubectl debug` automatically generates the name of the new pod, based on
  the name of the node.
```

* The root filesystem of the Node will be mounted at `/host`.

> * The container runs in the host IPC, Network, and PID namespaces, although
>   the pod isn't privileged, so reading some process information may fail,
>   and `chroot /host` will fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The container runs in the host's IPC, network, and PID namespaces, although
  the debug pod isn't privileged. This means that so reading some process information may
  fail (because access to that information is restricted to superusers),
  and `chroot /host` will fail.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Although the container runs in the host IPC, Network, and PID namespaces,
  the pod isn't privileged. This means that reading some process information might fail
  because access to that information is restricted to superusers. `chroot /host` will fail.
```

* If you need a privileged pod, create it manually.

> Don't forget to clean up the debugging Pod when you're finished with it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## {{% heading "cleanup" %}}

Clean up the debugging Pod when you're finished with it, by deleting that Pod:
```

```shell

> kubectl delete pod node-debugger-mynode-pdx84

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Change the name of the Pod to match the name that kubectl created earlier

kubectl delete pod node-debugger-mynode-pdx84 --now # no grace period
```

Reviewer 3: Why not make it a var? 

```suggestion
kubectl delete pod <pod-name> --now
```

Change <pod-name> to the name of the Pod that kubectl created in the previous step.

```
{{< note >}}

The `kubectl debug node` command won't work if the Node is down (disconnected

> from the network, or kubelet dies and won't restart, etc.). Check [Debugging Unreachable Node](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-cluster/#example-debugging-a-down-unreachable-node)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the network, or kubelet dies and won't restart, etc.). Check [debugging a down/unreachable node ](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-cluster/#example-debugging-a-down-unreachable-node) in that case.
```

---

> title: Debugging Kubernetes nodes with kubectl

Reviewer 4: Title case for front matter
```suggestion
title: Debugging Kubernetes Nodes With Kubectl
```

content_type: task
min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.20
---

<!-- overview -->
This page shows how to debug a [node](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/) running on the Kubernetes cluster using `kubectl debug` command.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

You need to have access to create Pods and to assign those new Pods to arbitrary nodes.
You also need to be authorized to create Pods that access filesystems from the host.

<!-- steps -->

## Debugging a Node using `kubectl debug node`

Use the `kubectl debug node` command to deploy a Pod to a Node that you want to troubleshoot.
This command is helpful in scenarios where you can't access your Node by using an SSH connection.

> When the Pod is created, the Pod opens a interactive shell on the Node.

Reviewer 5: Should be "an interactive shell"

> When the Pod is created, the Pod opens an interactive shell on the Node.

Reviewer 6: The only thing possibly missing is stating that `the container on the debugging Pod runs in the host's namespaces`. I'm not going to block on this nit pick.

Author: thanks for the reviews @seans3. I would address this nit picks in a follow up PR. 👍🏻

To create an interactive shell on a Node named “mynode”, run:

```shell
kubectl debug node/mynode -it --image=ubuntu
```

```console
Creating debugging pod node-debugger-mynode-pdx84 with container debugger on node mynode.
If you don't see a command prompt, try pressing enter.

> root@ek8s:/#

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
root@mynode:/#
```

```

Run debug commands to help you gather information and troubleshoot issues. Commands 

> that you might use to debug, such as `ip`, `ifconfig`, `nc`, `ping`, and `ps`. You can also

Reviewer 4: Perhaps we need a note that commands will vary and may need to be installed
I tested this on a cluster and only `ping` and `ps` are available

Author: fixed

install other tools, such as `mtr`, `tcpdump`, and `curl`, from the respective package manager.

The debugging Pod can access the root filesystem of the Node, mounted at `/host`. If you run your kubelet in a filesystem namespace,
the debugging Pod sees the root for that namespace, not for the entire node. For a typical Linux node,
you can look at the following paths to find relevant logs:

> `/host/var/log/kubelet.log`

Reviewer 6: These file examples are very helpful.

: Logs from the `kubelet`, responsible for running containers on the node.

`/host/var/log/kube-proxy.log`
: Logs from `kube-proxy`, which is responsible for directing traffic to Service endpoints.

`/host/var/log/containerd.log`
: Logs from `containerd` process running on node.

`/host/var/log/syslog`
: Shows general messages and info regarding the system.

`/host/var/log/kern.log`
: Shows kernel logs.

When creating a debugging session on a Node, keep in mind that:

* `kubectl debug` automatically generates the name of the new pod, based on

>   the name of the node.

Reviewer 5: Maybe provide an example of a name here.

* The root filesystem of the Node will be mounted at `/host`.
* Although the container runs in the host IPC, Network, and PID namespaces,
  the pod isn't privileged. This means that reading some process information might fail

>   because access to that information is restricted to superusers. `chroot /host` will fail.

Reviewer 5: Suggestion - For example, `chroot /host` will fail.

  If you need a privileged pod, create it manually.

## {{% heading "cleanup" %}}

When you finish using the debugging Pod, delete it:

```shell

> # Change <pod-name> to the name of the Pod that kubectl created in the previous step.
> kubectl delete pod <pod-name> --now

Reviewer 4: nit: use the node-debugger pod in your example
```suggestion
kubectl get pod
NAME                                                READY   STATUS         RESTARTS   AGE
node-debugger-mynode-pdx84     0/1         Completed     0                  8m1s

# Change the pod name accordingly
kubectl delete pod node-debugger-mynode-pdx84 --now
```

When creating a debugging session on a Node, keep in mind that:

* `kubectl debug` automatically generates the name of the new pod, based on
  the name of the node.
* The root filesystem of the Node will be mounted at `/host`.
* Although the container runs in the host IPC, Network, and PID namespaces,
  the pod isn't privileged. This means that reading some process information might fail
  because access to that information is restricted to superusers. `chroot /host` will fail.

> * If you need a privileged pod, create it manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  because access to that information is restricted to superusers. `chroot /host` will fail.
  If you need a privileged pod, create it manually.
```

The two points are related so I recommend that you merge them :)

## {{% heading "cleanup" %}}

> Clean up the debugging Pod when you're finished with it, by deleting that Pod:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you finish using the debugging Pod, delete it:
```

Reviewer 3: This is a nit
